Company: University of Agder (UiA)
Role: Post-doctoral Research Fellow in AI and Cultural Heritage
Location: Kristiansand, Norway

About the position

A fixed-term 100 % position is available at the University of Agder, Faculty of Fine Arts as a Post-doctoral Research Fellow in AI and Cultural Heritage, affiliated to the Department of Popular Music, for a period of 3 years. The position may be extended to 4 years including 25% teaching and administrative duties, depending on the Department's teaching needs. The position is located at the University of Agder's Kristiansand campus. The starting date is negotiable with the faculty.

The Faculty of Fine Arts has approximately 530 students and 95 academic staff. It consists of the Department of Popular Music, the Department of Classical Music and Music Education and the Department of Visual and Performing Arts.

The Department of Popular Music offers study programmes in performing rhythmical music at bachelor's, master's and doctoral levels. The department employs highly qualified staff with specialised expertise in performance, teaching, research and supervision, and maintains extensive national and international networks. The Department of Popular Music has been accredited and awarded a Centre for Excellence in Education (CreaTeME) and is a central partner in MishMash.

The position is funded by the Cultiva foundation and is linked to MishMash - Center for AI and Creativity, a Norwegian AI center funded by the Research Council of Norway (2025-2030). MishMash includes more than 200 professionals from various higher education institutions in Norway, in collaboration with a number of public actors and industry partners. The main goal of MishMash is to create, explore, and reflect on artificial intelligence for, through, and in creative practices. MishMash researchers will investigate AI's impact on creative processes, develop innovative co-creative AI systems and educational strategies, and reflect on AI's ethical, legal, cultural, and societal implications in creative fields.

Responsibilities

This postdoc position will be part of WP6 (AI for cultural heritage) of MishMash, with the possibility of also contributing to other work packages.

The focus of this position is to explore AI integration in the discovery, organizing and distribution of Nordic Cultural Heritage, including archives, libraries and museums, but also more commercial and market driven entities. WP6 has a broad focus, however in this call we seek projects exploring how we can significantly advance AI to effectively discover, organise, and showcase the vast richness of cultural heritage and creative works in all forms. And/or how we can develop interlinking systems within cultural heritage and creative works to enhance rights management and highlight their profound impact on contemporary creativity. In WP6, particular attention will be dedicated to minority cultural expressions, including Norwegian folk music, Sámi joik and world chant cultures.

The appointed candidate is expected to collaborate across the MishMash network and participate in all relevant MishMash activities.

The Department of Popular Music has built a strong national and international profile in research and education on music, creativity, and new technologies. Awarded Centre for Excellence in Education status (CreaTeME) and a central partner in MishMash, the department are well positioned for further growth. The appointed candidate will contribute to this development and help lead applications for larger external grants (e.g., Horizon Europe).

Required qualifications

Doctoral degree in a relevant subject area. Potential applicants must have had their theses approved by the time of the application deadline.
Fluency in English, both written and oral.
Strong academic writing skills (academic paper(s) published or submitted)
The working language at the University of Agder is Norwegian. The position does not require proficiency in Norwegian, but knowledge of Norwegian or another Scandinavian language is an advantage.

Desired qualifications

An interest in AI and creativity
Good understanding of the creative and cultural industries, their infrastructures and power dynamics
Understanding of and ability to collaborate with non-academic partners
Experience from collaborations with external partners in the field of practice
Experience in applying for grants
Practical and/or academic knowledge of the creative and cultural industries

In assessing the Research proposal, emphasis will be placed upon the research proposal relevance to the call and to MishMash goals and objectives. The scientific merit and quality of the research proposal will also be assessed, as well as the research project's feasibility within the time frame of the position.

In the research proposal, applicants may plan for collaborations with relevant project partners from the public and private sectors within the MishMash network, including partners in the local MishMash network in Kristiansand.

Personal qualities

Motivated to get involved and contribute to the development of a rapidly growing research environment
Strong ability to work purposefully, systematically, and independently
Good collaboration skills and an ability to join interdisciplinary academic communities
Good communications skills
Strong organizational and time-management skills
Personal qualities and suitability for the position will be emphasised.
