Company: University of Oslo (UiO)
Role: Researcher in Generative AI, Disinformation and Democracy
Location: Oslo, Norway

Department of Media and Communication

Researcher in Generative AI, Disinformation and Democracy

A temporary Researcher position (SKO 1109) affiliated with the research project NxtGenFake is available at the Department of Media and Communication (IMK), University of Oslo (UiO). The position is available for a period of two years and the expected start date is October/November 2026.

About the NxtGenFake project

The NxtGenFake project, funded by the Norwegian Research Council, examines how generative artificial intelligence (AI), particularly large language models, affects the production, dissemination, and understanding of digital content that may challenge democratic values and public trust.

The project investigates how large language models shape political narratives and strategic communication in digital environments. The project focuses on so-called disinformation narratives, meaning narratives of a misleading or inaccurate nature. Large language models enable the production of synthetic content at scale, potentially flooding information ecosystems with text that is difficult to distinguish from human-generated material. At the same time, large language models are increasingly being used for information retrieval, which may amplify the spread of biased or inaccurate representations.

A particular focus of the project is how such models—trained on large datasets including social media—may reproduce disinformation narratives from actors such as Russia and China, and influence public opinion in democratic societies, including Norway. The project analyzes how these disinformation narratives emerge, spread, and affect public discourse.

We are seeking a motivated and skilled researcher to contribute to the NxtGenFake project, with experience in handling and analyzing large datasets, and a willingness to collaborate interdisciplinarily with other project participants on studies and publications.

Responsibilities

Conduct empirical and theoretical research on generative AI, disinformation, and political communication in line with the objectives of the NxtGenFake project
Analyze disinformation narratives in AI-generated content and social media
Handle and analyze large datasets
Contribute to scientific publications and dissemination of research results
Collaborate with an interdisciplinary research team at IMK, Department of Literature, Area Studies and European Languages, and with other national and international partners

Applicants are required to attach a research proposal stating research questions and theoretical and methodological approaches as well as a feasible progress plan.

Qualifications

Mandatory requirements

PhD in media studies, communication, linguistics, political science, or a related field
Experience with research on generative AI, digital media, and/or disinformation
Experience with analysis of large datasets
Skills in qualitative, quantitative, and/or digital methods
Excellent English language skills, both written and spoken
Personal suitability and motivation for the position

Desired qualifications

Experience working in interdisciplinary teams
Good Norwegian language skills

In assessing the research proposal, special emphasis will be placed on scientific merit, innovation, and relevance to the NxtGenFake project. The candidate's project will be independent, but will still strengthen the NxtGenFake project and contribute towards obtaining the overall project objectives.

Application must include:

Application letter describing qualifications and motivation
Curriculum Vitae
Project proposal, including detailed progress plan (3-5 pages, maximum 14,000 characters)
List of publications
Copies of diplomas
2-3 references
